His name means little lion, but there’s nothing fierce about this dog breed. The Shih Tzu is a lover, not a hunter. Bred solely to be a companion, the Shih Tzu is an affectionate, happy, outgoing housedog who loves nothing more than to follow his people from room to room. In recent years, however, owners have started taking the Shih Tzu off their laps and into dog sports, training him for obedience, rally, and agility competitions.
Although he’s born to be a companion, the Blenheim Spaniel, also called Cavalier King Charles Spaniel dog breed, retains the sporty nature of his spaniel ancestors. If he’s not sitting on a lap or getting a belly rub, nothing makes him happier than to flush a bird and then attempt to retrieve it. One of the largest of the toy breeds, he’s often as athletic as a true sporting breed and enjoys hiking, running on the beach, and dog sports such as agility, flyball and rally. Some have even shown their prowess as hunting dogs. The more restful members of the breed find success as family friends and therapy dogs.
The Papillon dog breed descends from the toy spaniels that are frequently portrayed in paintings by the Old Masters, from as far back as the 16th century. He’s highly active and is a wonderful competitor in agility and obedience. His sparkling personality makes him a favorite of all who meet him.
Originally created as smaller versions of their larger Smooth Fox Terrier dog breed ancestors, Toy Fox Terriers have been used for a variety of tasks, serving as ratters on farms and as hunters of small game such as squirrel. They have been successful circus dogs and performers and their intelligence helps them to do well in obedience and agility competitions. Their most important purpose, however, is to be a loyal, loving, and devoted companion that amuses and entertains their families
This handsome dog breed was created in Africa to be a versatile hunter and home guardian. He’s smart but sometimes stubborn, with a moderate energy level and an easy-care coat. These days, he’s less likely to hunt lions and more likely to hunt a soft spot on the sofa after going jogging with you.
The Afghan Hound is elegance personified. This unique, ancient dog breed has an appearance quite unlike any other: dramatic silky coat, exotic face, and thin, fashion-model build. Looks aside, Afghan enthusiasts describe this hound as both aloof and comical. Hailing from Afghanistan, where the original name for the breed was Tazi, the Afghan is thought to date back to the pre-Christian era and is considered one of oldest breeds.
The Afghan Hound is elegance personified. This unique, ancient dog breed has an appearance quite unlike any other: dramatic silky coat, exotic face, and thin, fashion-model build. Looks aside, Afghan enthusiasts describe this hound as both aloof and comical. Hailing from Afghanistan, where the original name for the breed was Tazi, the Afghan is thought to date back to the pre-Christian era and is considered one of oldest breeds.
The Afghan Hound is elegance personified. This unique, ancient dog breed has an appearance quite unlike any other: dramatic silky coat, exotic face, and thin, fashion-model build. Looks aside, Afghan enthusiasts describe this hound as both aloof and comical. Hailing from Afghanistan, where the original name for the breed was Tazi, the Afghan is thought to date back to the pre-Christian era and is considered one of oldest breeds.
The Bloodhound’s ancestors were created in medieval France to trail deer and boar. Today, he’s a highly active and intelligent dog breed whose keen sense of smell has found him a special place in law enforcement and search and rescue. His fans love him for his sweet nature and unique appearance.
Fast and muscular, the Bluetick dog breed stands out for his striking coat. He has a pleasantly pleading expression and a big bawl mouth — meaning he has a long, drawn out bark. Although he’s a hunter first and foremost, the Bluetick can be a fine housedog and loves his people.
